Add ComInterfaceGenerator sample with in proc registered COM (#6137)
dotnet/samples: core/interop/source-generation/ComWrappersGeneration/README.md

---
languages:
- csharp
products:
- dotnet
page_type: sample
name: "Source-Generated COM Sample"
urlFragment: "generated-comwrappers"
description: "A .NET solution that demonstrated how to use source-generated COM in .NET"
---

# .NET Source-Generated COM Sample

> This project demonstrates how to use the COM source generators in the .NET SDK to expose .NET objects to COM and import COM objects to .NET, with source-generated parameter marshalling. This tutorial compiles the projects to a NativeAOT application to demonstrate the compatibility of source-generated COM, and to export native methods from the Server project that the Windows COM system requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to use COM source generators in .NET 8+ to create a COM server. The projects compile using Native AOT to demonstrate the compatibility of source-generated COM, and to export native methods from the Server project that are required by all COM servers.
```

> This example defines an interface `ICalculator` that provides `Add` and `Subtract` methods. The server provides an implementation of `ICalculator` and exposes it to COM through registration. The client project creates an instance of the object through the `CoCreateInstance` Win32 method, and calls methods on the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example defines an interface `ICalculator` that provides `Add` and `Subtract` methods. The server provides an implementation of `ICalculator` and exposes it through COM registration. The client project creates an instance of the object using the [`CoCreateInstance`](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/api/combaseapi/nf-combaseapi-cocreateinstance) Win32 method, and calls methods on the object.
```

> ## Prerequites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> - .NET 8 SDK
> - Windows device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- .NET 8+ SDK
- Windows 10+ OS
```

## Build and Run

> Build the Native AOT binaries by running `dotnet publish -r <RID>` where `<RID>` is the RuntimeIdentifier for your windows device, for example `win-x64`. The projects will copy the binaries to the OutputFiles directory. After publishing, use `regsvr32.exe` to register Server.dll to COM (run `regsvr.exe ./OutputFiles/Server.dll`). Then, run the Client.exe and see the output as it gets a COM object from the Server.dll and calls methods on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the Native AOT binaries by running `dotnet publish -r <RID>` where `<RID>` is the RuntimeIdentifier for your Windows device, for example `win-x64`. The projects will copy the binaries to the `OutputFiles/` directory. After publishing, use `regsvr32.exe` to register `Server.dll` (run `regsvr.exe ./OutputFiles/Server.dll`). Then, run the `Client.exe` and observe the output as it activates and uses a COM instance from `Server.dll`.
```
